# Users, Cookies, and Sessions

NOTE: On User authentication, first with a demo of the `sessions` hash,
then storing emails and passwords, then using the Demise gem
---

# Did you say cookies??

You may have heard about web cookies before: they are small pieces of data stored on your computer by websites. 

---

# On my computer? Sounds malicious

Cookies are nothing by a *key value pair* and are actually helpful: they help identify you to a site. 

---

# Where are they?

Let's go look at the cookies on your computer.  
Note that the're usually encrypted and look like just a jumble of letters.

NOTE: Open up Chrome inspector and show what cookies look like on sites like Google and Facebook.

---

# Why are they there?

They hold a little bit of data about who the site *thinks* you are.  

---

# How Cookies Work: 1

Every time your browser makes a request to a web site, all of that web site's cookies go along with that request. 

---

# How Cookies Work: 2

When the server receives that request, it can look through the cookies to figure out which computer made that request; that is, identify you.

---

# How Cookies Work: 3

Once the browser identifies you, it can show you custom content.  
Without cookies, you'd have to sign in on every page! 

---

# Cookies and Rails

Setting cookies yourself is a bit tedious, so Rails (of course) has an easy way to do it: the `session` hash.

---

# The session hash

The session hash allows the programmer to store different data depending on *each user*.

---

### Example: When the user signs in:

```ruby
# Check that the user signed in correctly
@user = User.authenticate(params[:email], params[:password])
# Store their ID for future reference
session[:user_id] = @user.id
```

### Then later...
```ruby
@user = User.find(session[:user_id])
```
---

# Session best practices

- Keep the data in the session small (`user_id` vs whole `user` object)

---

# User Authentication Codealong

[Code on Github](https://github.com/iExperience/session_practice/tree/5ecad5eaa98b4cbf45ac90d9fe24f1e8be4158d0)

NOTE: Work through generating a user model with an email and password, since generating things will still be new to people (especially after the weekend). Optionally add validations on email and password. Create a simple sign up page where a user can enter a new email and password, and their account is created. Then walk through sign in and sign out.

---

# Any problems?

- Password is **unencrypted**!
- How can we easily make actions for which you need authentication?
  - For viewing tweets, login not required
  - For creating tweets, login required
- Password confirmation?
- Forgot password?
- Remember me?

---

# Devise

A gem that helps solve these problems and more!

---

# Adding Gems: The Gemfile

The Gemfile specifies all the gems your app depends on. Rails automatically adds a bunch, and as your apps become more complex, you'll add many as well.

---

# Bundle install

To get all your gems to actually be installed, you'll have to run `bundle install` in your shell, in the project directory.  

**Remember to restart your server after!**  

---

# Adding Devise: Codealong

[Code on Github](https://github.com/iExperience/devise_practice/tree/1999561779d4ae07b5d83c2756658e9ab82fc888)

NOTE: Make a new project where you use the devise generator to create a model User. Show all the routes, controller methods, and views that are created, and how to customize them. Perhaps watch RailsCast #210 with the class. 

---

# More about Devise

[RailsCast #209 (Intro to Devise)](http://railscasts.com/episodes/209-introducing-devise)  
[RailsCast #210 (Customizing Devise)](http://railscasts.com/episodes/210-customizing-devise)  
[Devise Documentation](http://devise.plataformatec.com.br/)

---

# More about sessions and cookies

[What are Cookies? (.com)](http://www.whatarecookies.com)  
[Rails Security Guide](http://guides.rubyonrails.org/security.html)

---

# Exercises

[http://iexperience.github.io/exercises/11A.html](http://iexperience.github.io/exercises/11A.html)
