# Visualizing MVC

---

# Forget about Rails for a sec...

And let's start a business 

---

# A GALLERY!

---

# STEP 1: BUILD THE BUILDING

---

# STEP 2: DECORATE

---

# STEP 3: LEAVE

Let people come by, enjoy the art, hang out

---

# Getting Some window shoppers, but...

Now we want a *custom* shopper experience

---

# STEP 3 (revised):
# HIRE A THINKING PERSON

Make sales, guide customers, *remember* customers

---

# LIFE OF A SALES REP

- Greet customer, be friendly
- Find out what he/she wants
- Show them the right art
- Make the sale

---

# AGAIN AND AGAIN

As your business grows, your sales rep will get tired

---

# HIRE MORE!

Now each one greets, interacts, shows art, and sells

---

# BUSINESS IS BUMPIN'

It's getting hard for your sales reps to remember what works of art you have...

---

# INVENTORY

Nice.


---

# LIFE OF A SALES REP
# (FOR A BUMPIN' BUSINESS)

- Greet customer, be friendly
- Find out what he/she wants
- Check inventory for what he/she might like
- Show them art
- Make the sale

---

# IS THIS EFFICIENT?

Probably not. We want some kind of **division of labor**.

---

# DIVIDE AND CONQUER

- A greeter
- A shower
- An inventory-checker
- A checkout rep

---

# DOES THIS SOUND FAMILIAR?

Hint: yes.

---

# WE JUST BUILT A RAILS APP!

---

# STEP 1: BUILD THE BUILDING

Your **HTML**

---

# STEP 2: DECORATE

Your **CSS**

---

# STEP 3: LEAVE

Now you have a *static site*.  
People can come and look around, but can't *interact*.

---

# STEP 3 (revised):
# HIRE A THINKING PERSON

- This is the start of your *dynamic* app. 
- The structure of your store depends on your design *framework*.
- Rails is one option, but others work differently

---

# INVENTORY

Database.

---

# THE FRAMEWORK

Notice that as we grew, we needed certain things, like  

- An inventory
- Division of labor

---

# THE FRAMEWORK

As we grow even more, we'll need more and more things

- Loyalty points
- Coupons
- Etc.

---

# THE FRAMEWORK

If your framework is good, its easy to add new features  
**Rails is good** for this reason.

---

# DIVIDED AND CONQUERED

A greeter  

**The routes**

NOTE: Explain that it's the "gate" to your application: tells shoppers where to go if they want to certain things like buy certain kinds of art, return, etc.

---

# DIVIDED AND CONQUERED

A shower  

**The controller**

NOTE: Processes your "inputs" (what you want to see, how much you want to spend, basically *parameters*). Communicates with the inventory checker, and sends you to the checkout rep.

--- 

# DIVIDED AND CONQUERED

An inventory checker  

**The model**

NOTE: Checks inventory. THE CHECKERS IS NOT THE SAME AS THE INVENTORY—this is the difference between the model and the database. The model is a specialized thing that communicates efficiently with the database. 

---

# DIVIDED AND CONQUERED

A checkout rep  

**The view**

NOTE: Something that takes the work of the inventory checker and shower, packages it nicely (even giftwraps maybe) and sends you on your way.


---

# ROUTES + MVC

- Greeter
- Shower
- Inventory checker
- Checkout rep

---

# CONTINUING THE ANALOGY

---

# Shopping Departments

* PAINTINGS: Look only.
* BOOKS: Look, buy, return.

---
# Shopping Departments
### IN RESOURCES
<br/>

PAINTINGS: Look only.
```ruby
resources :paintings, :only => [:index, :show]
```
<br/>
BOOKS: Look, buy, return.
```ruby
resources :books, :only => [:index, :show, :create, :destroy]
```

---

# Shopping Actions

* Browse
* Buy
* Exchange
* Return

---
# Shopping Actions
## IN HTTP VERBS

<table class="reveal">
  <tr>
    <td style="text-align: right">Browse</td>
    <td>[GET]</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td style="text-align: right">Buy</td>
    <td>[POST]</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td style="text-align: right">Exchange</td>
    <td>[PUT]</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td style="text-align: right">Return</td>
    <td>[DELETE]</td>
  </tr>
</table>


---
# Shopping Scenarios
### In the Shopping Controller

<table class="reveal">
  <tr>
    <td style="text-align: right">Browse</td>
    <td style="text-align: center">[GET]</td>
    <td>=> ```:index, :show```</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td style="text-align: right">Buy</td>
    <td style="text-align: center">[POST]</td>
    <td>=> ```:create```</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td style="text-align: right">Exchange</td>
    <td style="text-align: center">[PUT]</td>
    <td>=> ```:update```</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td style="text-align: right">Return</td>
    <td style="text-align: center">[DELETE]</td>
    <td>=> ```:destroy```</td>
  </tr>
</table>

---
## Why use HTTP verbs?

# R.E.S.T.

NOTE:
It is an open question as to how we explain WHY we separate requests based on these verbs. We know that GET is used for viewing, and POST for creating, but the underlying motivations behind the separation aren't that clear. Perhaps database optimizations (e.g. read-only connections), but otherwise, it is just a convention. Basically, REST.

---

# What is HTTP?

HTTP is the language of the web

NOTE:
There are other languages used to communicate over the internet (e.g. FTP, SSH, etc.) in different ways. HTTP is the standard language and comes with standard conventions (e.g. REST).

---

# GROUP ACTIVITY

<table class='reveal bordered'>
  <tr>
    <td>1</td><td>Ahuja</td><td>Chauvin</td><td>Premaratne</td><td>Hu</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>2</td><td>Struck</td><td>Liu</td><td>Kassier</td><td>Saini</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>3</td><td>Swift</td><td>Trudell</td><td>Wehlin</td><td>Zhao</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>4</td><td>Taleisnik</td><td>Ginsberg</td><td>Cheng</td><td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>5</td><td>Beam</td><td>Gill</td><td>Tenn</td><td></td>
</table>

---

# YOUR OWN ANALOGY

Think of a physical location that you can explore and interact with, and model it as a Rails application.  

- List out the roles (like greeter, shower, checker, and checkout rep)
- List out some example resources (like paintings, books)
- List out some actions (like browse, buy, return)

NOTE: Make them present