## Welcome To 
# Cape Town!

---

# (Some Of) The Team

* Aaron Fuchs (CEO)
* Alexis Gillis (COO)
* Darren Kramer (CFO)
* Isra Shabir (TA)
* Rafi Khan (TA)
* Salman Ansari (Professor)

---

# Course Highlights

* 4 Weeks
* Monday-Friday lectures
* Saturday lectures
* Weekend / weeknight excursions
* Weeknight workshops / panels / talks

---

# Course Topics

* Programming in Ruby
* Front-End Development (HTML, CSS, JavaScript)
* Building Web Applications in Rails
* Working with Databases
* Agile Product Development
* Testing

---

# Course Goals

1. Learn to *teach yourself*
2. Develop the patience to *deal with failure*
3. Understand the web development process
4. Build something *you* are **proud of**
5. Have fun!

---

# Typical Weekday

* __7AM:__ House Opens
* __8AM-9:30AM:__ Breakfast
* __9:30AM-11AM:__ Morning Lecture
* __11AM-2PM:__ Morning Exercises / Lunch Break
* __2PM-3:30PM:__ Afternoon Lecture
* __3:30PM-6PM:__ Afternoon Exercises / Projects
* __6PM-12AM:__ Workshops / Talks / Excursions / Projects
* __12AM:__ House Closes

---

# Typical Weekend

* There are tentative Saturday lectures, with the intent of helping address difficult topics from the week, or teaching supplemental topics. 
* Saturday lectures will be announced by Thursday, and determined based on how the course is progressing. Some Saturdays will have early morning excursions with no lecture that day.
* Sundays are all yours...(to work all day, of course).

---

# Balancing Act

* Spend the time to complete exercises, projects and other materials. Push yourself - this is a once in a lifetime experience.
* Ensure you are well rested enough to pay your *full attention* during lectures. Lectures are the most concentrated, valuable form of learning you will get.
* There are many components to *iExperience* besides technology; make the most of your (ridiculously beautiful) surroundings.
* Remember to have fun!

---

# Resources

* *Learning Center (iExperience.github.io)*: Course schedule, lecture slides, exercises (solutions next day)
* *Student Center (learn.iexperience.co.za)*: Prework, activities info, discussion forums, additional resources
* *TreeHouse (teamtreehouse.com)*: Supplemental lectures & exercises

---

# The Apprenticeship

* 4 weeks long
* Work with local companies
* Learn about challenges in the industry
* Creatively contribute to project goals
* Up to you to provide value!

---

# Look Around

* Try and use this course as an apprenticeship @ iExperience. 
* You are part of the birth of a new startup, the first of its kind that is bringing technology education to Africa. 
* Take advantage of this oppurtunity to learn (& contribute!)

---

## Good Luck!


We're rooting for you :)

---

# Questions?

---

# EXERCISES

[http://iexperience.github.io/exercises/1A.html](http://iexperience.github.io/exercises/1A.html)