# REVIEW

* Conditionals
* Loops
* Arrays
* Hashes
* Tweet Analyzer

---

# Methods & Objects

---

So far, we have been invoking methods on a variety of different things (Strings, Arrays, etc.). Let's review those cases and see if we can find any common patterns.

---

# Calling Methods
### on Arrays

```ruby
>> numbers = [1,2,3]
=> [1,2,3]

>> numbers.push(4)
=> [1,2,3,4]

>> numbers.size
=> 4

>> numbers.each do |number|
>>  puts number
>> end
```

---

# Calling Methods
### on Strings

```ruby
>> x = "hello"
=> "Hello"

>> x.upcase
=> "HELLO"

>> x.downcase
=> "hello"

>> x.size
=> 5
```

---

# Calling Methods
### on Integers

```ruby
>> x = 5
=> 5

>> x.to_s
=> "5"

>> puts x.to_s + " days left"
=> "5 days left"

>> puts "#{x} days left"
=> "5 days left"

```

---

## What do they have in common?
### Strings, Numbers, Arrays

* They hold data
* They can be stored in variables
* They have methods you can call on them
* They are all *objects*!

---

# What are Objects?

1. The basic building blocks (atoms) of Ruby
2. Every object has a type, known as its __Class__ (String, Fixnum (Integer), Array)

---

# Classes of Objects
* __String__ is a Class of Object to hold text data
* __Fixnum__ is a Class of Object to hold integers/numbers
* __Array__ is a Class of Object to hold lists of other objects (e.g strings and numbers)

---

## Use the .class method to discover its class

```ruby
>> "Hello".class
=> String

>> 5.class
=> Fixnum

>> [1,2,3].class
=> Array

```

---

# What are Objects?

1. The basic building blocks of Ruby
2. Every object has a __Class__ (String, Fixnum (Integer), Array)
3. All objects have __Methods__ you can call on them, based on their class

---

# What are Methods again?

* __Methods__ are commands that can be called on objects to perform work
* Depending on which __Class__ it is, an Object has different methods available to it

```ruby
>> "hello".upcase
=> "HELLO"
>> [1,2,3].join
=> "123"
>> 4.to_s
=> "4"
>> [1,2,3].to_s
=> "[1,2,3]"
```

---

Ruby has a base __Object__ class; all classes in Ruby __inherit__ from the base Object class.
<br/><br/>
As a result, all classes have access to a basic set of methods that are available in the __Object__ class (e.g. ```to_s```).

---
You can call ```to_s``` on __every__ object in Ruby.

```ruby
1.to_s
# => "1"

true.to_s
# => "true"

"Hey".to_s
# => "Hey"

[1,2,3].to_s
# => "[1, 2, 3]"
```

Fun Fact: String interpolation just takes whatever you place inside the ```#{}``` and calls ```to_s``` on it automatically...
---


# What are Objects?

1. The basic building blocks of Ruby
2. Every object has a __Class__ (String, Fixnum (Integer), Array)
3. All objects have __Methods__ you can call on them, based on their class
4. __Instances__ of classes that hold __data__ are objects

---

# Instances of Classes

* This is an __instance__ of the __String__ class:

```ruby
>> "Hello"
```

* This is an __instance__ of the __Fixnum__ (Integer) class:

```ruby
>> 1
```

* This is an __instance__ of the __Array__ class:

```ruby
>> [1,2,3]
```
---

# Why does this matter?

* It's important to know the terminology of **classes**, **objects** and **instances** as early as possible so you can differentiate between them
* It's okay if you don't get it right away; these will be reinforced repeatedly
* There is still more to learn about Objects, Classes, and how they relate to each other. We will return to this topic in the future to expand our knowledge further.

---

# Review

* **Classes** are the types of a given object. They determine what kinds of methods it has (i.e. the species)
* **Methods** are functions/procedures you can call on instances of objects (i.e. what the species can do)
* **Instances** are incarnations of objects of a specified class (i.e a single animal of the given species)
* **Objects** are the basic building blocks of Ruby that everything is built off of (i.e. atoms)
* **Variables** store instances of objects with a variable name you can reference (i.e. the same way we give each other unique names to remember who we are)

---

# Defining Methods

---

As behavior in our programs starts to get more complex, we will occasionally want to group our code into logical sections. We can do this by defining __our own__ methods.

---

# Simple Method Example

```ruby
def say_hello
	puts "Hello"
end

say_hello
```

---

# Invoking Methods
### A.K.A. Calling Methods

```ruby
def shout_hello
	puts "HELLO!"
end

shout_hello
# HELLO!

3.times do
  shout_hello
end
# HELLO!
# HELLO!
# HELLO!
```

---

### You can pass a method 'arguments' to make it behave differently

---

# Method w/ Arguments

```ruby
def say(message)
	puts message
end

say("Howdy")
# Howdy
```

---

# Methods 
### w/ Multiple Arguments

```ruby
def say(word, count)
	count.times do
		puts word
	end
end

say("Hello", 3)
# Hello
# Hello
# Hello
```

---

# Method w/ Arguments
### Modifying the argument

```ruby
def shout(message)
	puts message.upcase + "!"
end

shout("hi")
# hi!

def shout(message)
	puts "#{message.upcase}!"
end

shout("hi")
# HI!
```

---

# Variable Scope

The variables declared as __Method arguments__ are not accessible __outside__ of a method.

```ruby
def foo(method_argument_var)
   puts "#{method_argument_var} is inside method foo"
end   

foo("hello world")
#=> hello world is inside method foo

puts method_argument_var
#=> NameError: undefined local variable or method `method_argument_var'
```

---
# Variable Scope

Variables declared __inside__ of a method are not accessible __outside__ of the method.

```ruby
def foo
	some_var = 24
	puts "foo"
end

foo
# foo

puts some_var
#=> NameError: undefined local variable or method `some_var'
```

---

# Variable Scope

Variables declared outside of a method are not accessible within the method.

```ruby
some_var = 42

def foo(inside_scoop)
   puts "#{inside_scoop} is inside method foo. #{some_var} is not"
end

foo("test")
#=> NameError: undefined local variable or method `some_var'
```

---

# What do methods return?
### The last line of the method-block

```ruby
def maximum(numbers)
	puts "Calculating max of #{numbers}..."
	numbers.max
end

max([2,4,6,8])
# Calculating max of [2,4,6,8]...
# => 8
```

Just as ```.map``` uses the last line of each do-block as the value to replace each element.
---

# Implicit Return

To return values, Ruby Methods do not need to use the ```return``` keyword. 
<br/><br/>
Instead, a Method will always just return the result of the last line (the last Ruby statement) in its method block.

---

# Premature Return

The one use case that ```return``` is used for in Ruby is to do an __early__ return to break out of a method early.

```ruby
def maximum(numbers)
	numbers.max
end

numbers = nil
maximum(numbers) # same as `maximum(nil)`, `maximum`
# NoMethodError: undefined method `max' for nil:NilClass
```

--

```ruby
def maximum(numbers)
	return unless numbers
	numbers.max
end

numbers = [1,2,3]
maximum(numbers)
# => 3

numbers = nil
maximum(numbers) # same as invoking `maximum`
# => nil
```
```return``` within a method is analogous to ```break``` within a loop.

---
# Why Define Methods?

* The #1 motivation for methods is to stay DRY
* DRY: Don't Repeat Yourself
* Duplicated code is expensive to maintain

---

# CODE-ALONG

## Methodify

NOTE:
Solution: [https://github.com/iExperience/methodify](https://github.com/iExperience/methodify)

---

# EXERCISES

[http://iexperience.github.io/exercises/3A.html](http://iexperience.github.io/exercises/3A.html)