# Models & Databases

---
# Review: Parts of a Rails App

* __/public__: where all static HTML files (e.g. index.html) are kept and can be accessed
* __/app/assets/stylesheets__: stylesheets (both CSS and SCSS)
* __/app/assets/images__: images used in the app
* __/views/layouts__: the application.html.erb default layout
* __/views/{resources}/index.html.erb__: the list/index resources page (url: /users)
* __/views/{resources}/new.html.erb__: the create new resource page (url: /users/new)
* __/views/{resources}/show.html.erb__: the show one resource page (url: /users/1)
* __/views/{resources}/edit.html.erb__: the edit one resource page (url: /users/1/edit)

---

## Where is App Data stored?

We've built apps such as the Tweets app which store Tweets, and show them in a list UI.

But where are those tweets actually stored?

---

## The Database

* Web applications store data inside a __database__
* A database is a collection of related data, structured in a way that makes it easy to access
* A database is stored in a very similar way to a spreadsheet
* Each sheet in the spreadsheet is referred to as a database *table* (because it is tabular data)
* In our Twitter app, users are stored in a ```users``` table, and tweets are stored in a ```tweets``` table.

---

# ```users``` Table

<table style="border: 1px solid black;">
<tr>
	<th>ID</th>
	<th>Name</th>
</tr>
<tr>
	<td>1</td>
	<td>Salman Ansari</td>
</tr>
<tr>
	<td>2</td>
	<td>Rafi Khan</td>
</tr>
<tr>
	<td>3</td>
	<td>Aaron Fuchs</td>
</tr>
</table>

---
# ```tweets``` Table

<table style="border: 1px solid black;">
<tr>
	<th>ID</th>
	<th>User</th>
	<th>Body</th>
</tr>
<tr>
	<td>1</td>
	<td>@daretorant</td>
	<td>omg this cat is amazing</td>
</tr>
<tr>
	<td>2</td>
	<td>@daretorant</td>
	<td>can i keep it?</td>
</tr>
<tr>
	<td>3</td>
	<td>@daretorant</td>
	<td>seriously tho i want the kitty.</td>
</tr>
</table>

---
### What kind of database are we using?

* By default, Rails uses SQLite
* SQLite is an extremely simple (and tiny) database, which can be installed through a simple gem
* Its entire contents are stored in a .sqlite3 file
* SQLite is a great way to get started without worrying about configuring and running a local database on your computer (e.g. MySQL, PostgreSQL)

---
### Databases are complex

> To simplify working with databases, web applications use data *models*.

---

# Models

* Used to make working with the database much easier
* Provide simple methods to do common operations (CRUD: Create, Read, Update, Destroy)
* Ideally contain all 'business logic'; any logic that directly interacts with or modifies your data

---
## ActiveRecord

Models are a generic concept used throughout many applications.
<br/><br/>
In Ruby on Rails, models are implemented using ```ActiveRecord```.
---
## ActiveRecord

* ```ActiveRecord::Base``` is a Class included in the Rails framework
* This class provides many __methods__ for you to make working with the database a cinch
* Every __resource__ has a custom class for its model, which inherits from ActiveRecord::Base
* e.g. ```Tweet < ActiveRecord::Base```

---

In Ruby, we can use __```irb```__ to try out various Ruby and work with our custom classes.

<br/><br/>

In Rails, we can use __```rails console```__ (an extension of IRB) to try out code and work with all the classes from our app.

---
# Rails Console

* The rails console is IRB with your Rails application environment loaded on top
* All commands that work in IRB work in Rails Console
* You can access all your custom Model classes in rails console
* Going forward, you will likely be using ```rails console``` over IRB

---

# Code-Along

Let's view the models in our Rails app, and then experiment with them in ```rails console```.

---

# Instance Methods vs Class Methods

* While learning these new ActiveRecord methods, we've seen something different
* In the past, all the methods we have called have been called on object *instances*
* With ActiveRecord, we have also been provided with methods that are called on the __class__. These are known as *class methods*.

---
## ActiveRecord Class Methods

These methods are being called on a class, not on an instance.

```ruby
>> Tweet.find(1)

>> Tweet.new

>> Tweet.all
```

---

## Defining Class Methods

```ruby
class String
	def self.catchphrase # defining class method
		"Dusk Till Dawn"
	end
	
	def acronymize # defining instance method
		self.split.map { |word| word.first }.join
	end
end

# invoking a class method on a Class
>> phrase = String.catchphrase
=> "Dusk Till Dawn"

# invoking an instance method on an Instance
>> phrase.acronymize
=> "DTD"
```

---

# Recap

* Application data is stored in a database
* By default, Rails uses the simple SQLite database
* Working with databases is hard, so we use Models to simplify the work
* In Rails, we use ```ActiveRecord``` as the base class for all our models
* We can use ```rails console``` as an enhanced IRB environment that includes our Rails app classes
* ActiveRecord::Base provides us with some Class methods in addition to instance methods

---

# EXERCISES

[http://iexperience.github.io/exercises/6B.html](http://iexperience.github.io/exercises/6B.html)
