# MVC

---
# Putting it all together

* We have learned to build __views__ that render HTML content with the help of Ruby
* We have learned to work with the database using ActiveRecord __models__
* We have learned how URLs in the app get routed to certain actions in __controllers__

---
# The Three Pillars

* __M__odels
* __V__iews
* __C__ontrollers

---

We have now gained a basic understanding of each component in MVC (models, views, controllers).
<br/><br/>
With this experience, we finally have enough knowledge to build a Rails app __without__ scaffolding!

---
### But what's wrong with Scaffolding?

* Scaffolding is great for initial prototyping, and can get you started fast
* However, scaffolding creates many routes and actions that you probably don't need. It creates the kitchen sink application.
* Building each model, view, and controller by hand allows you to really understand what is going on under the hood.

---

# Code-Along

Let's build a basic implementation of our Twitter app without scaffolding!

NOTE: Will need to explain migrations once we get to them.

---
# Migrations

* Migrations are Ruby scripts that tell your application how to make a set of changes to your database.
* Once you run a migration, those changes are applied to your development database. 
* Undo-ing a migration can be tricky, so make sure to double-check your migration script before running it.

---

# EXERCISES

[http://iexperience.github.io/exercises/7B.html](http://iexperience.github.io/exercises/7B.html)